 1. What technologies would you choose?
For this task, I chose to implement the backend using Spring Boot due to its robustness, ease of integration with other technologies, and wide adoption in enterprise environments.

I followed a hexagonal (clean) architecture to ensure the application remains modular, testable, and easy to maintain.

I used Spring Data JPA for data access, MapStruct for DTO mapping, and Lombok to reduce boilerplate. For validation, I used Jakarta Bean Validation (@Valid). The API is exposed via REST controllers following RESTful conventions.

 2. What database(s) would you choose?
I chose PostgreSQL because it's a reliable, production-grade relational database that integrates well with Spring Boot through Spring Data JPA.

During local development and testing, PostgreSQL can be easily run using Docker, and for integration tests, it can be replaced with Testcontainers or H2 in PostgreSQL compatibility mode if needed.

3. What considerations would you make when building the API?
Several key considerations guided the design of the API:

Simplicity and clarity: Followed REST conventions and used standard HTTP methods and status codes.

Validation: Added request validation to ensure input data integrity.

Error handling: Implemented global exception handling using @ControllerAdvice to return meaningful error messages.

Scalability: Used DTOs to decouple domain and API layers and facilitate versioning.

Clean architecture: Ensured separation between domain logic and infrastructure for better maintainability and testing.

4. How would you handle security of the API?
For this MVP, authentication and authorization were considered out of scope. However, in a real-world application, I would secure the API using JWT-based authentication with Spring Security.

Each endpoint would require a valid access token, and user roles would be enforced via annotations like @PreAuthorize. HTTPS would also be enforced to secure data in transit.

If federated identity is needed, integration with Keycloak or an OAuth2 provider would be the next step.

5. Write the Slack message you would send to the frontend developer explaining how to use the API

The backend API for managing ideas  and tags on VeryCool-backend is ready

Here are the main endpoints:

GET /api/ideas – Returns the list of all ideas

POST /api/ideas – Adds a new idea

POST /api/tags – Adds a new tag

        * Example payload for creating a new idea:
        {
          "title": "New Idea Title",
          "description": "This is an awesome idea."
        }
        * Example payload for creating a new tag:
        {
          "name": "Name of the tag"
        }
        * Example of the list of ideas returned
         [
           {
             "id": 1,
             "title": "title1",
             "description": "desc1",
             "tags": [
               {
                 "id": 1,
                 "name": "tag1"
               }
             ]
           }
         ]

all endpoints return JSON responses. Input is validated, and any errors will be returned with proper HTTP status codes and messages.
There is the link if you of  the swagger : http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui/index.html